
I Should I take this time, while the children are in school,to untrim the tree? Standing in the dish we let go dry,it looks well-preserved, as if Christmas were stillin our future; would it spare their feelings if I dismantlepiece by piece its grandeur, or will I amplifytheir sense of loss, to de-jewel it without ritual?Epiphany, we drove by a painted camel on a church lawn— or what, after hard freeze, is lawn’s avatar.No magus, Jefferson Davis brought camel brawnto Texas to aid in the Civil War. Now they’re goneexcept in these tableaux where Balthazar,with all his diamonds, kneels before the Paragon.We were coming back from a weekend getawaybefore the holiday’s official end. I took the dog,went out on the beach, but the length of South Padrewas swept by a long wind; dunes went astray;thin snakes of sand grains slithered; I couldn’t jog;the Gulf went from glaucous to cauldron gray.As in a Bedouin poem a gown of white sandeternally receded before me; the snakes raced.The profile of the island was changing, anddespite the fury in my heart this tempest fanned,the beloved’s encampment can never be retraced:all texts are unwritten by the same hand.Boxes of baubles for yearly display we haulfaithfully from house to house no nomad, I realize,could conscion. Your hem’s circumference allyou know of enclosure. The open stall.Patterns are starting to emerge to my wondering eyes — on my skin, even. Up close, the epidermalAlhambra of triangles, stars. Back of wrist. Kneecap.Gypsies that named the lines on palms don’t lookat soles, like yours, that close the lovelorn gapbetween the territory and (yes, yes) the map.Our tree is still in its vise. The road we took(don’t turn) is riddled with needles. Dried sap.II The boys are lighting fireworks on the ground.(Recall, this is a country called Illyria;even stars are upside down.)Toby and Andrew name the kinds of deliria:jumping jack, blooming flower, black cat    ...    What rose-green shower — or umbrella — is that?The empty lot Toby and Andrew bring us towhere crab-like diggers squatinertly in the champagne-cold, is impromptubeach, with all the night sky for sea. Juiced-up Roman candles discharge into it. Loosed,frantic, spinners change color like salamanders:spry Viola jumps back, goosed;but Feste jokes about motley, and gandersat the tracers that shroud us in gunsmoke.(Perhaps it’s just another carnival joke — your hand on the small of my back? Like bloomsin the sky?) The New Year spokeby spoke nears, but with a breath of tombsthe moment Feste, feeling insolently gay,heckles a rather elderly personage: “Prayyou go out on your toes — or comatose.”I hear Malvolio sayto Olivia holding her sparkler overly close,“Back off — you’re wearing too much hairspray.”III Speaking of ground flowers:Epiphany. The resorts are deadbut for the foreign powersthat raise pistils in a yellow headcrouching on a Cypriot beach.A rough, hairy pod — surprise!— jumps at my touchand squirts seed at my eyes.Because I hear the wind rushagainst the palm-palmswith which our balcony is flush;sky cloud over with qualms;memories blur. Psyche’s actuariesbeg to take the measureof our folded white Januarieswith sleep’s ruled erasure.IV Do I have to be mailed in bubbles ortoiling over bouillabaisse,frisées, port glaze for Sir Omnivore;protagonist of a page-turner, Hazemére or fille; people-pleaser, cocktease,she-bear, in niqab, in getup, in stays;having taken St. Paul’s advice to seizethe gold ring: Who groks the paradox?Though one would sooner burn than freeze    ...    I’ve taken to the dark stuff since you left:a stovetop espresso maker with the heftof a campfire kettleto express more strongly my mettle.