
Though I am more Che than Chavez,I am still a dove.
I do not apologizeto you. Or to the state
of California. The IRS. New York. That administrator I bitin the third grade,who was deliciousand sweet.I, oh,
so cold.
In the mind, the Dionysian defiles wallsthe Apollonian protects.I am always lookingto take something
down. Usually it’s me.
Two bulls stand on a hill. The younger says,Father, let’s run down and fuck a cow.The father, wiser, longer in the horn,higher on the grass,
reminds his son how Moses was also horned, beamed with light,that to handle a massive snake,
to charm Pharaoh, to steal fire, to fly, to unzipthe sea, is to speakand not tap vanity.Moses descended Mount Sinai with cracked slabs
and saw a golden calf. The father said to the young bull,No son, let’s strut down and fuck them all.Thus begins the beef  between bird and bee,the isthmus isolatingorder from chaos.
My mind is made upof so many different cutsof meat.
My marbles stayas mixedas my metaphors. As my myths.As myself.
At parties my favoriteicebreaker involves asking strangers
to describe themselveswith three words. Their descriptions are a slipping
away to change clothes. Identity and ironyneatly knit in an ugly Christmas sweater.
Sometimes I feel so Socratic: oft-laureled, poison-palmed,
toga-partied, exasperated by the masses:I wouldn’t have guessed ambitious.Free-spirited, you don’t say.Other times I feel like the womanrambling among the vapors escaping the ground
in Iceland’s volcanic canyon,making a busan em dashin a rest stop,
where some fifty-odd persons
searching for themselvesin true existentialismare yellow lupines growingon the side of the road. An epiphany cannot be achieved,as a cedar waxwing
cannot be more cedarqua waxwing. Eventually what we’re looking
for appears. Sometimes incitation opens
at the bottom of a straw, a spoon, a barrel of wine,the windfall happens while eating farfalle,while flipping throughThe Autobiography of a Brown Buffalo. At the moonme the animal roofsatop brownstones, sin vergüenza.Upwards our eyes scamper,a reflex action,when inserting an objectin the mouth,
even when the object
is a gun. Over hills a road erodes the way home.Only after the Coast Guard
has readied a helicopter,
do wedescend the cold volcano in Eldg já
to realize we are the womanin the search party lookingfor ourselves.to poetry.In moments of ecstasywe are lifted
 
    
At the shore of the Aegean Seaor at the banksof the river Evros,
he loosened his sandalswhile Pegasus stamped the soil,crushing reedsand hoofing awaystray wood. The sun bandagedlight on a sky
that would not heal.Perseus,with eyes heavenward,formed the shapes of gods into clouds,slipped his handinto the woven sack,and felt the flintof primped snakes. He thought,But it is the cold weight of scales that protects.As sure as a child,
he lined leaves rockedto sleep by saltwater wavesfor a bed,so as not to,with sand,or with hubris,bruise Medusa’sdisunited head. One day,like a beam through skylight,we realizelife is a puddle jumper of  tragedy.Some stones sink fastyet still hold light. So phantom are a statue’sbusted arms and toes. Everything must go.
And yet I still hanger hopewhen shopping the racks of discountstores. Veni vidi vici when I see Vince,
freeze when I see the coiled coifof Versace’s emblem. Like Sisyphus,
errybody thinkthey headed for the top.Sing, started from the bottom,to my reflectionin the dressing room mirror,now we here boywhen I rememberthatOh my god Becky, look at her buttpasses the Bechdel test.
I have eaten from the tree the fig that sullies and seenthat the meat’s not alwaysfair.I was,like Perseusand Sir Mix-a-Lot,
born by a rivof water,felled by pride whena brown boy, tattooed with age,
obsessed with fame, took his talentsto Vermont to kiss trees and tapsyrup from the sap.There and thereand there, he kissed. Here and here
he drank.So drunk he hugged an oldwhite womanoff the ground. None of the godsI love
love me. To be tipsyis to leverage one’s self.Or so I’m told. The pulley
is considered civilization’shighest achievement.Icaruskilled himselfbeing lifted.
