
1 She pressed her ear against the shell:she wanted to hear everythinghe never told her.2 A single inchseparates their two bodiesfacing one anotherin the picture:a framed smileburied beneath the rubble.3 Whenever you throw stonesinto the seait sends ripples through me. 4 My heart’s quite small:that’s why it fills so quickly.5 Water needs no warsto mix with waterand fill up spaces.6 The tree doesn’t ask why it’s not movingto some other forestnor any other pointless questions.7 He watches tvwhile she holds a novel.On the novel’s coverthere’s a man watching tvand a woman holding a novel.8 On the first morningof the new yearall of us will look upat the same sun.9 She raised his head to her chest.He did not respond:he was dead.10 The person who gazed at me for so long,and whose gaze I returned for just as long . . .    That man who never once embraced me,and whom I never once embraced  . . .    The rain wrecked the colors around himon that old canvas.11 He was not with the husbandswho were lost and then found;he did not come with the prisoners of war,nor with the kite that took her,in her dream,to some other place,while she stood before the camerato have her smileglued into the passport.12 Dates piled highbeside the road:your wayof  kissing me.13 Rapunzel’s hairreaching downfrom the windowto the earthis how we wait.14 The shadowsthe prisoners lefton the wallsurrounded the jailerand cast lighton his loneliness.15 Homeland, I am not your mother,so why do you weep in my lap like thisevery timesomething hurts you?16 Never mind this bird:it comes every dayand stops at the branch’s edgeto sing for an houror two.That’s all it does:nothing makes it happier.17 House keys, identity cards,faded pictures among the bones . . .    All of these are scatteredin a single mass grave.18 The Arabic languageloves long sentencesand long wars.It loves never-ending songsand late nightsand weeping over ruins.It loves workingfor a long lifeand a long death.19 Far away from home — that’s all that changed in us.20 Cinderella left her slipper in Iraqalong with the smell of cardamomwafting from the teapot,and that huge flower,its mouth gaping like death.21 Instant messagesignite revolutions.They spark new liveswaiting for a country to download,a land that’s little morethan a handful of dustwhen faced with these words:“There are no results that match your search.”22 The dog’s excitementas she brings the stick to her owneris the moment of opening the letter.23 We cross borders lightlylike clouds.Nothing carries us,but as we move onwe carry rain,and an accent,and a memoryof another place.24 How thrilling to appear in his eyes.She can’t understand what he’s saying:she’s too busy chewing his voice.She looks at the mouth she’ll never kiss,at the shoulder she’ll never cry on,at the hand she’ll never hold,and at the ground where their shadows meet.
