
Because this song’s made of the airwavesa time machine, you start to play the airguitar of memory, making a countryso you can walk back into it, like a manon rewind in a silent film, his whiskey tumblerfilling up again as he rises from his stooland steps backwards towards the avenue, wherethe cars, cabs, trucks reverse away from him,and the lights, for once, turn amber to green;where the two hands on his watch unravel time,like a maiden aunt unpicking a whole evening’s worthof knitting over the dropped stitch that meansshe must go back before she can go on.You raise the record from its sleeve again,hold it grail-like into the wayward lightto read the liner notes on a life you’ve livedall wrong. Wind in the sycamores outside,rain coming down in a town you left behindand not this one, where the backward longingcan strike you anytime — breath on the napeof your neck when you’re the only one in line,cat with a broken spine dragging itself offinto the undergrowth to die. Where the silencemight give way to a high-hat or snare drum,the lub-dub of the bass, a brass section.After a long absence, you take up the thread again,take up the line, what you listen for,try not to listen for, stirring the tiny hairswithin your inner ear, weighting the wet tipof your tongue, like the scuff and fumbleof the blind needle finding its way from silenceto the first track on side one. You nodyour head “yes.” You sing along. You tapthe steering wheel of the car in which you passunder a strobe of stars, a quarter moon,until, despite yourself, you are sixteenagain and walking home in a downpourwith your Ken Dodd quiff, your flowers of sulfur,toward the box of records from which you’ll picka tune to name the afternoon. Its scatteredshowers with a chance of sunny spells later,its gust and bluster from Rathlin to Cape Clear.This one would sound good in a stadium.It’s all guitar shimmer, tremolo arm,a chorus that staggers smitten towardthe open bar. This one’s a plea, a paeanon just six strings until the horns cut in,like the bully at a prom. It recalls the tasteof cigarettes and bubblegum on the tongueof the first girl you ever kissed. All broken glassand bruised finger, its swoon circles foreverthe turntable in that blue room where youfed and watered every slight and scar. And soyou’d like to thank the engineer, his assistantwho provides the harmonies and made the tea;the trumpet player, his spit still wet in the mouthof a solo that the vinyl keeps pristine,black box recorder to your submerged plane.The singer with a bone stuck in her throat,which is another way to say “longing.”The producer, who fills in on Hammond organ.You could go on like this, lost in the noiseagain, in your baroque joy at what wasand is, and what the words become, talkingto yourself in the second person, as ifyou’re fooling anyone, reading the liner noteson a life you measure song by song.
