
There was a vasethat held the world’s riches, but it wasn’t cheap.It cost a dime — and this in a time and placewhen dimes were sizable, especially fora girl of eight whose construction-worker fatherwas unemployed. The old metaphorwas literal in this case and shecounted her pennies till there were ten — then embarked on a mission of great secrecy,a purchase whose joys ran so deep,seventy years later, as she told the tale again,her face flushed. It was a birthday gift for her mother. There was a raceof people heretofore glimpsed only on hanging scrollsin library books. They were on the vase —  the smallest whole figures imaginable,purposeful and industriousas they fished or planted rice or hiked a hill whose spiral trail led to a temple perched upona crag between cloud and waterfall.They were a vision exported from Japan — a country far as the moon, and far more beautiful,whose artists grasped an eight-year-old girl’s soul’sneed for the minutely amplitudinous.There was a place(Detroit, the thirties) now slipped from sight,though here and there I’ll catch some holdover trace — maybe the grille on an old apartment door, or a slumped block of  houses, drapedin torn sheets of rain, apparently posing for black-and-white photographs. Even the out-of-a-job, men like my grandfather, donned hats back thenbefore leaving the house — to circle endlessly about,as if a lost job were a lost coin that might yet be found on the street where it had been dropped, making them whole again.There was a face,rucked with care, that would dreamily softenif  talk floated off toward some remote someplacebeyond the seas. My grandmother had a yen for the faraway(which she imparted to her daughter),even as her life was tethered between a grayicy motionless Midwestern city — stalled like a car with a frozen ignition — and a Tennessee farm without electricity. (She did once see Washington — cherry season — and often spoke of  those long pink walkways beside the water that were  Japan’s gift to a grateful nation.)There is a vase — a piece of gimcrack that somehow made its way to a crowded curio casein a small souvenir shopin Detroit, seventy-plus years ago — which today stands atop the mantel in the apartment in DCwhere my fading mother is now living.When she was eight, in 1933,she gave it to my grandmother, who for all her poverty bequeathed her daughter so rich a bounty, including a taste for giving:the gift of grace. It seems a little miraclealmost — that it’s intact, the little vase,conveying what its makers set out to convey:an inward island spared by Time,by the times. These days, she can scarcely saywho she gave it to, or on what occasion.A — birthday? The pilgrim climbs the winding hillforever, station by station,and “Isn’t it beautiful?”she asks. “You bought it for a dime,”I tell her. It holds the world’s riches still.
